[docs] Add comparison page (#3756)
skypilot-org/skypilot: docs/source/reference/comparison.rst

Reviewer: Scale beyond single region/cluster -> Scale beyond a single region/cluster?

.. _sky-compare:

Comparing SkyPilot with other systems
=====================================

> We are often asked "How does SkyPilot compare against XYZ?". Providing an unbiased and up-to date answer for such questions is not easy, especially when the differences may be qualitative.

Author: Changed to [`with`](https://www.grammar.com/compared_to_vs_compared_with:_what_is_the_difference)

This page tries to provide a comparison of SkyPilot with other systems, focusing on the unique features of SkyPilot. We welcome feedback and contributions to this page.

SkyPilot vs Vanilla Kubernetes
------------------------------

> Kubernetes is a powerful system for managing containerized applications. SkyPilot builds on top of Kubernetes to provide a more powerful and easier-to-use framework for running AI workloads.

Author: Changed. Added a link to getting started on k8s page inline. Adding a new line for it breaks the flow of the page

> Faster iteration with interactive development

Reviewer: To discuss
- Faster interactive development
- Faster iteration speed
- Faster developer velocity

> Faster iteration with interactive development

Author: Leaning towards `Faster iteration speed` since that's the precise summary of the benefit

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. figure:: https://blog.skypilot.co/ai-on-kubernetes/images/k8s_vs_skypilot_iterative_v2.png

>     :align: center

Reviewer: with this width the font is a bit too small

Author: Updated to 95%

    :width: 80%
    :alt: Iterative Development with Kubernetes vs SkyPilot

    Iterative Development with Kubernetes requires tedious updates to docker images and multiple steps to update the training run. With SkyPilot, all you need is sky launch.

Interactive workflows benefit from faster iteration with SkyPilot. For example, a common workflow for AI engineers is to iteratively develop and train models by tweaking code and hyperparameters by observing the training runs.

* **With Kubernetes, a single iteration is a multi-step process** involving building a Docker image, pushing it to a registry, updating the Kubernetes YAML and then deploying it.

* **With SkyPilot, a single sky launch takes care of everything.** Behind the scenes, SkyPilot provisions pods, installs all required dependencies, executes the job, returns logs and provides SSH and VSCode access to debug.

> Simpler YAMLs

Reviewer: Just thinking out loud, do we like this better or something like "Simpler interface and faster developer speed" (the latter is more directly a benefit)?

             ephemeral-storage: "10Gi"
             nvidia.com/gpu: 1
           limits:
             cpu: "2"
             memory: "10Gi"
             ephemeral-storage: "10Gi"
             nvidia.com/gpu: 1
         args:
         - --model=$(MODEL_ID)
         - --tensor-parallel-size=1
         env:
         - name: MODEL_ID
           value: google/gemma-1.1-2b-it
         - name: HUGGING_FACE_HUB_TOKEN
           valueFrom:
             secretKeyRef:
               name: hf-secret
               key: hf_api_token
         volumeMounts:
         - mountPath: /dev/shm
           name: dshm
       volumes:
       - name: dshm
         emptyDir:
             medium: Memory
       nodeSelector:
         cloud.google.com/gke-accelerator: nvidia-l4
   ---
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Service
   metadata:
   name: llm-service
   spec:
   selector:
     app: gemma-server
   type: ClusterIP
   ports:
     - protocol: TCP
       port: 8000
       targetPort: 8000
           </code>
           </pre>
       </div>
   </div>

Scale beyond single region/cluster
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. figure:: https://blog.skypilot.co/ai-on-kubernetes/images/failover.png
    :align: center

>     :width: 80%

Reviewer: with this width the font is a bit too small

Author: Changed to 95%

    :alt: Scaling beyond a single region Kubernetes cluster with SkyPilot

    If the Kubernetes cluster is full, SkyPilot can get GPUs from other regions and clouds to run your tasks at the lowest cost.

> Kubernetes deployments are typically contained to a single region in a single cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Kubernetes cluster is typically constrained to a single region in a single cloud.
```
"Kubernetes deployments" are ambiguous.

> This is because longer latencies across regions causes etcd, the store for Kubernetes state, to timeout and fail [1]_ [2]_ [3]_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because etcd, the control store for Kubernetes state, can timeout and fail when it faces highers latencies across regions [1]_ [2]_ [3]_.
```

Being restricted to a single region/cloud with Vanilla Kubernetes has two drawbacks:

> 1. `Availability is reduced by up to 29% <https://blog.skypilot.co/introducing-sky-serve/#why-skyserve>`_ because you cannot utilize

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `GPU availability is reduced by up to 29% <https://blog.skypilot.co/introducing-sky-serve/#why-skyserve>`_ because you cannot utilize
```
Actually, this statement & 29% is a bit odd at face value. One would think by going to many more regions + clouds the GPU availability can intuitive more than 3x. Similar thoughts for 2.4x below. Shall we skip the numbers?

Author: Removed the numbers

available capacity elsewhere.

2. `Costs increase by 2.4x <https://blog.skypilot.co/introducing-sky-serve/#why-skyserve>`_ as you are unable to
take advantage of cheaper resources in other regions.

> SkyPilot was designed to scale across clouds and regions - it allows you to run your tasks on your Kubernetes cluster, and burst to more regions and clouds if needed. In doing so, SkyPilot ensures that your tasks are always running in the most cost-effective region, while maintaining high availability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SkyPilot is designed to scale across clouds and regions: It allows you to run your tasks on your Kubernetes cluster, and burst to more regions and clouds if needed. In doing so, SkyPilot ensures that your tasks are always running in the most cost-effective region, while maintaining high availability.
```

.. _sky-compare:

Comparing SkyPilot with other systems
=====================================

> We are often asked "How does SkyPilot compare with XYZ?". Providing an unbiased and up-to date answer for such questions is not easy, especially when the differences may be qualitative.

Reviewer: Kind of feel this para is a bit odd. Seems messages aren't lost if left out. Wdyt? Cc @Michaelvll for a look too.

Author: I added it because comparisons can be sensitive for the authors of other systems, especially if we do not present their strengths. I think this should stay in

Reviewer 2: We can keep this, but maybe good to rephrase a bit of the sentence. Some reference for how other library starts the comparison:
* Terraform: https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro/vs
```
Because of this flexibility, Terraform can be used to solve many different problems. This means there are a number of existing tools that overlap with the capabilities of Terraform. We compare Terraform to a number of these tools, but it should be noted that Terraform is not mutually exclusive with other systems. It can be used to manage a single application, or the entire datacenter.
```
* Pulumi: https://www.pulumi.com/docs/concepts/vs/
```
Because of this broad array of supported scenarios, there are many tools that overlap with Pulumi’s capabilities. Many of these are complementary and can be used together, whereas some are “either or” decisions.
```
* Modin: https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/stable/getting_started/why_modin/modin_vs_dask_vs_koalas.html

Author: Reworded the paragraph. wdyt?

This page tries to provide a comparison of SkyPilot with other systems, focusing on the unique features of SkyPilot. We welcome feedback and contributions to this page.

SkyPilot vs Vanilla Kubernetes
------------------------------

> Kubernetes is a powerful system for managing containerized applications. :ref:`Using SkyPilot to access your Kubernetes cluster <kubernetes-overview>` boosts developer productivity and allows you to scale your infra beyond a single Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 2: Can we show a architecture diagram for showing how SkyPilot relates to kubernetes clusters? For example, a user interacts with SkyPilot and SkyPilot sends the requests to underlying Kubernetes.

Author: Good idea - added an architecture figure. wdyt?

Reviewer: LGTM.

Faster developer velocity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. figure:: https://blog.skypilot.co/ai-on-kubernetes/images/k8s_vs_skypilot_iterative_v2.png
    :align: center
    :width: 95%
    :alt: Iterative Development with Kubernetes vs SkyPilot

    Iterative Development with Kubernetes requires tedious updates to Docker images and multiple steps to update the training run. With SkyPilot, all you need is one CLI (``sky launch``).

> SkyPilot provides faster iteration for interactive development. For example, a common workflow for AI engineers is to iteratively develop and train models by tweaking code and hyperparameters by observing the training runs.

Reviewer: two "by"s seem weird, rephrase?

Author: Changed the second by to `while`

* **With Kubernetes, a single iteration is a multi-step process** involving building a Docker image, pushing it to a registry, updating the Kubernetes YAML and then deploying it.

> * **With SkyPilot, a single command (``sky launch``) takes care of everything.** Behind the scenes, SkyPilot provisions pods, installs all required dependencies, executes the job, returns logs and provides SSH and VSCode access to debug.

Reviewer: Code formatting doesn't work while bold.

Author: Changed to using `:strong:`, markdown syntax wasn't playing nicely with spaces

Simpler YAMLs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Consider serving `Gemma <https://ai.google.dev/gemma>`_ with `vLLM <https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm>`_ on Kubernetes:

* **With vanilla Kubernetes**, you need over `65 lines of Kubernetes YAML <https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/tutorials/serve-gemma-gpu-vllm#deploy-vllm>`_ to launch a Gemma model served with vLLM.
* **With SkyPilot**, an easy-to-understand `19-line YAML <https://gist.github.com/romilbhardwaj/b5b6b893e7a3749a2815f055f3f5351c>`_ launches a pod serving Gemma with vLLM.

Here is a side-by-side comparison of the YAMLs for serving Gemma with vLLM on SkyPilot vs Kubernetes:

.. raw:: html

   <div class="row">
       <div class="col-md-6 mb-3">

>             <h3> SkyPilot </h3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <h3> SkyPilot (19 lines) </h3>
```

.. code-block:: yaml
   :linenos:

   envs:
     MODEL_NAME: google/gemma-2b-it
     HF_TOKEN: myhftoken

   resources:
     image_id: docker:vllm/vllm-openai:latest
     accelerators: L4:1
     ports: 8000

   setup: |
     conda deactivate
     python3 -c "import huggingface_hub; huggingface_hub.login('${HF_TOKEN}')"

   run: |
     conda deactivate
     echo 'Starting vllm openai api server...'
     python -m vllm.entrypoints.openai.api_server \
     --model $MODEL_NAME --tokenizer hf-internal-testing/llama-tokenizer \
     --host 0.0.0.0

.. raw:: html

       </div>
       <div class="col-md-6 mb-3">

>             <h3> Kubernetes </h3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <h3> Kubernetes (65 lines) </h3>
```

               memory: "10Gi"
               ephemeral-storage: "10Gi"
               nvidia.com/gpu: 1
             limits:
               cpu: "2"
               memory: "10Gi"
               ephemeral-storage: "10Gi"
               nvidia.com/gpu: 1
           command: ["python3", "-m", "vllm.entrypoints.api_server"]
           args:
           - --model=$(MODEL_ID)
           - --tensor-parallel-size=1
           env:
           - name: MODEL_ID
             value: google/gemma-1.1-2b-it
           - name: HUGGING_FACE_HUB_TOKEN
             valueFrom:
               secretKeyRef:
                 name: hf-secret
                 key: hf_api_token
           volumeMounts:
           - mountPath: /dev/shm
             name: dshm
         volumes:
         - name: dshm
           emptyDir:
             medium: Memory
         nodeSelector:
           cloud.google.com/gke-accelerator: nvidia-l4
   ---
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Service
   metadata:
     name: llm-service
   spec:
     selector:
       app: gemma-server
     type: ClusterIP
     ports:
       - protocol: TCP
         port: 8000
         targetPort: 8000

.. raw:: html

       </div>
   </div>

> 

Reviewer 2: Just thinking out loud, not sure if we can think of other value adds on this page, or if we can go a bit deeper for the points we mentioned below, like what is the quantitative benefits `GPU availability` and `Costs` can provide. The current points feel a bit weak.

Author: Hmm we had some numbers in the earlier commits but removed them in [this comment](https://github.com/skypilot-org/skypilot/pull/3756#discussion_r1683717038)

Reviewer 2: I see! Let's skip the numbers for now then.

Scale beyond single region/cluster
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. figure:: https://blog.skypilot.co/ai-on-kubernetes/images/failover.png
    :align: center
    :width: 95%
    :alt: Scaling beyond a single region Kubernetes cluster with SkyPilot

    If the Kubernetes cluster is full, SkyPilot can get GPUs from other regions and clouds to run your tasks at the lowest cost.

A Kubernetes cluster is typically constrained to a single region in a single cloud.
This is because etcd, the control store for Kubernetes state, can timeout and fail when it faces highers latencies across regions [1]_ [2]_ [3]_.

Being restricted to a single region/cloud with Vanilla Kubernetes has two drawbacks:

> 1. `GPU availability gets reduced <https://blog.skypilot.co/introducing-sky-serve/#why-skyserve>`_ because you cannot utilize

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `GPU availability is reduced <https://blog.skypilot.co/introducing-sky-serve/#why-skyserve>`_ because you cannot utilize
```

Comparing SkyPilot with other systems
=====================================

> SkyPilot provides a framework for running AI and batch workloads on any infrastructure. Due to it's flexible design, its capabilities overlap with other systems and it can be used in conjunction with them to provide additional benefits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SkyPilot is a framework for running AI and batch workloads on any infrastructure. While SkyPilot offers unique capabilities, certain functionalities like job scheduling overlap with existing systems (e.g., Kubernetes, Slurm). That said, SkyPilot can be used in conjunction with them to provide additional benefits.
```

SkyPilot vs Vanilla Kubernetes
------------------------------

Kubernetes is a powerful system for managing containerized applications. :ref:`Using SkyPilot to access your Kubernetes cluster <kubernetes-overview>` boosts developer productivity and allows you to scale your infra beyond a single Kubernetes cluster.

..
   Figure sources
   Light: https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/1REe_W49SPJ44N-o4NRCKcIRhCkXG9o03ZXHh1mfLUzk/edit?usp=sharing
   Dark: https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/1MefAOXRNHj05B9raO3dCPhAyMJN3oWYM6nvUNgo8aoA/edit?usp=sharing

.. figure:: ../images/k8s-skypilot-architecture-dark.png
   :width: 55%
   :align: center
   :alt: SkyPilot on Kubernetes
   :class: no-scaled-link, only-dark

   SkyPilot layers on top of your Kubernetes cluster to deliver a better developer experience.

.. figure:: ../images/k8s-skypilot-architecture-light.png
   :width: 55%
   :align: center
   :alt: SkyPilot on Kubernetes
   :class: no-scaled-link, only-light

   SkyPilot layers on top of your Kubernetes cluster to deliver a better developer experience.

Faster developer velocity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> SkyPilot provides faster iteration for interactive development. For example, a common workflow for AI engineers is to iteratively develop and train models by tweaking code and hyperparameters while observing the training runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SkyPilot provides faster iteration for interactive development. For example, a common workflow for AI engineers is to iteratively develop and train models by tweaking code and hyperparameters and observing the training runs.
```
